again hi everyone welcome to the i
profess corporations weekly sync for the
8th of february
2021. i have aiken brain i will be your
host we're going to go through our high
priority initiatives our other
initiatives
questions pokemon q a all that good
stuff
it's going to be amazing uh i'm looking
forward to it the most
um we have a note taker it is lidl we
can start with the high priority
initiatives
uh releases who can talk about releases
uh go ipfs uh
rc2 is out uh
assuming no bugs are found specific to
the rc
that will turn into the final release
but
try it out let us know if there are
things we missed or am i
messed up
this will also this will also have to
include binary releases to things like
uh ipfs ds convert because
it requires that when you do new
releases of things with repo migrations
in them so that'll be out
when the release is out
uh there was a release of jsipfs last
week uh in the middle of hackweek
54 was released the standout feature
is a nat traversal so if you have a
router that supports upnp it will
negotiate an external port and forward
it appropriately
so you're externally valuable this is
amazing i had no idea if
we hadn't been externally valuable this
time how does it ever work
i mean crazy anyway so now it does which
is nice
um there's the other uh standout thing
that's worth mentioning is uh it
upgrades level.js
in the browser this is browser only node
is not affected by this in the browser
there is an upgrade for level chest to
the latest version
uh it changes how it stores uh keys and
values
it's now buffers only or you an arrays
only even
so there is a repo migration that will
take place uh
when you first run jsipfs54
in the browser in node no migration will
take place for it is not necessary i say
that it will change the version number
of the repo but it will not do any
significant work
um this will only happen in the browser
so be aware
if you are deploying js ivfs in the
browser
there's also a patch release earlier
today uh with the fix for
uh a problem with the uh
abort controller um there is an issue i
will link in the notes
if you're interested please do read it
that is it
uh next up is pinning services
yep so on the gui desktop
and web ui front we are wiring up
file screen and end-to-end testing
things against the
test endpoint from pinata uh
that's happening hopefully
we will be able to enable mfs
autopinning which
is in 0.8
release candidate 2 and it's scheduled
to ship with 0.8 so
we may have automatic uh pinning of mfs
um yep i think that's it on the inquiry
side
of things um we also learned http client
patch in gsipf
happens to be clap
that's shipped as part of 54 so that is
available for use
right now
uh we can move on to the local pinning
if that's a pinning circuit
yeah that's uh yes we can we can close
up shop on local pinning for now
uh it may return it may return in the
future with more features but for now
it's uh it's it's done does the thing
will be in 0.8 have we had any
initial feedback from anybody who's
tried some of the latest fixes in it
like matt perhaps
i haven't heard from him i think he's
probably working on
making sure the pinning service api
stuff is doing what it needs to do but
i'll i'll check with him and see if the
new migration is
is much faster and less memory intensive
than the old one was
which seems like it should be but would
be good to confirm
thanks
uh next up is the data transfer speed
improvements
yes uh so uh the
data transfer uh last last week um we
did we were mostly doing hack week but
before that we
um did a lot of work around just
building out beyond bit swap repo
it's looking um pretty like you know
completed and refactored and like lovely
for running benchmarks against and alex
has started to do some of that
to build some metrics um we've got some
initial stuff that's a little
uh funky and interesting so we're trying
to figure out what's going on with that
um i mean generally the performance of a
graphic is looking really good but
there's some
bizarre inversions with bitswap um
it's certain latencies and networks so
we want to figure out what's going on
with that
um so we'll be doing that this week and
uh yeah that's it
awesome uh next up just increase
discoverability and connectivity
yes there is a proposal for the
connection manager overall linked in the
notes
according to the planning this week
we'll see when
we'll actually work on this uh but the
chainsaw folks are also interested in
some of these features for lobster
which for those of you might not know is
the jazz client for it too
so yeah they might probably help with
some of this
if this is a priority for them we are
still
talking about it and that's it for this
week
fair enough uh i just added a little
section back in for the jstht
because last week jacob vashko and
myself
spent the week hacking on the jsdht and
we added
um types which is the thing but whatever
but more excitingly we added um
the pre uh like seeding
uh k buckets with um imaginary piers
which are uniformly distributed over the
shah 2256 address space
uh which is cool uh ported straight from
go
and also uh improved the algorithms
around the eviction
of uh of peers from the k buckets
um so that's super exciting and it's
gonna help a lot
i think the other thing there did you
just do that on the server end or the
client end uh seven
oh it's all it's the same it's still
climb mode only right now
yeah well the cause one thing i brought
up to
cause all the the nonsense with like the
huge like
break a few bites a few bits of of
shot two isn't required for
client mode because like basically
because you only care about
the first two buckets and the last one
and everything in the middle is like
irrelevant if you're a client
so we don't have to add that to like
browser bundle things if we don't
need to yeah
i think one of the most notable things
if you haven't
watched the video at all we took the
phantom drift work that happened
like last year um that's the libpdp
observation deck that lets you hook a
new node
and that was one of the the things that
we started working on there
um so that you can actually inspect a
routing table inspect connections
this will be reusable in go as long as
we implement the hooks
for that um and i think the reple repo
for go let p2p also export some of that
but one of the in-progress graphs that
we added for one of the widgets to that
was the piezor
library that petar put together last
year for
inspecting the go queries and so we've
started trying to
include that so that we can debug our
our js queries
ui still needs some work there um but
super
excited to be able to debug the queries
live there
it's good yes the bcp is getting all
grown up
uh next up that was it pretty high
prioritization news uh next up is the
other initiatives
um so typescript integration what's
going on
whatever end
nothing much besides the
improved support for typescript ripples
in
asia a big release coming up
as soon as i finish integrating it with
the
jspfs monorepo which improves
a lot of aspects to
um especially typescript real typescript
ripples like the php noise
um there's a new bundler
um that handles the typescript so even
like
node tests in lipid pinoys which used to
register a hook and run bubble at
runtime
now do it with a new bundler which is
super fast so even the mocha tests in
the php nodes are going to be faster
the browser tests are going to be faster
but i'll
do a blog post or something
with the new stuff that's coming up on
azure
you all can read it there's no need to
explain everything
right now because this this is just that
trick but yeah
a lot of stuff is coming up but during
this week i'll
like the types in our reports need to be
finished
there's like bfs repo almost done
also i think alex has some
vrs in xfs and stuff like that so we
need to
finish all that up hopefully this week
let's see if we can manage
yeah i'm going to try and finish the
unix of vesta this week
um which like it's kind of getting into
protons which is really hairy
um and i'm going to look at like there
are
pro cool buffer modules out there that
will generate types
from for all the wire transport types
so i'm going to look at maybe getting
rid of protons and just
using someone else's module so we don't
have to maintain it anymore
um but that's going to have knock-on
effects for everything else because
protons is used in the p2p for doing all
the um
[Music]
like everything so we're going to have
to then
like roll out elsewhere and also things
like
the new multi-format stack has like its
own
bits of protocol buffer stuff
like for reasons um so
it would be nice to not have multiple
types of protocol buffer module in the
dependency tree
when we're making browser bundles so
yeah that's going to be
interesting oh yeah another thing to
mention
uh is actually me and alex
discovered this and kind of fixed it in
the interface core
um we we have a
doc in asia talking about all the
typescript stuff
some uh best practices that we've been
using
in lipitp ripples and ipfs reports one
of them
is to write
some of the more complex types in a
external file like
types.ts file and we we started doing
this along
some time ago and now we have like
multiple repos
but we actually discovered that using a
dot ts file is not the best option
um because when you
some of you may be familiar with this
when you regenerate the types and then
another another user another report
using your
package as a as a dependency when you
try when you run the
typescript compiler if it finds a dot ts
file even if
it just types no call there it tries to
compile it
and then it tries to resolve the imports
and exports and stuff like that
then some errors may occur with
the imports paths
so we figure that out and the the
easiest solution
is to actually stop using dot ds files
for types and use
dot d dot ts the type declaration files
for the types uh and we have a new
feature in azure that actually copies
any
type declaration file to the the this
folder that the the one that gets
published
um and then no no problems
we stopped having problems with the
wrong paths being
outputted by the compiler and stuff like
that
and actually the the type of corrections
files are a little bit better
if we only write types there because we
can define classes
abstract classes and the compiler will
not tell you that
you can't have an abstract class without
an implementation
uh so the all that stuff that we create
interfaces and then
create an extra interface so so we can
define the constructor
there's no need for that because we can
declare it as a class
so everything is there the prototype the
interface and the constructor
uh so we kind of change the change the
the express the best practices in the in
the repo
that's one of the things that is coming
up in the new age here
uh release the documentation we updated
but
uh just a reminder because this a lot of
a lot of reapers already use these files
and
they will need to be changed to avoid
these types of errors with the
the pass the import pass
all the go people are like you jokers
yeah i mean so late to the party with
your types what is this
anyway very exciting do read the doc
uh it's gonna get better uh moving on
uh badger two no three support
so yeah so we know you know it's badger
three so that's good
we have agreement from people who
are using the or maintaining the
go ds badger and badger 2 repos and how
we want to put them in one repo
so we don't totally lose track of
all of the repos
[Music]
in order to get this into go ipfs we
would need to
uh modify some of the existing work for
um that we were using for badger 2
so that we have like a more sane path
so we have things like ipfs init badger
ds
gives you the latest version of badger
not badger one which is the thing that
you would
get right now um and then
and then just have the repo versions and
the data store spec
track that changing over time um
not sure i mean this doesn't seem like a
ton of work but it also
isn't super high priority so not sure
exactly when
as far as migration is concerned uh
we're going to auto migrate or i mean
[Music]
i don't i don't think so i think we'll
probably you'll support both
because i i would hope that badger 3
is better and more stable than badger
one but i would like
to know that for our use that our users
experience that as well
and they have the active sds convert
tool that should help them
uh migrate
next up is not traversal
uh yeah no major updates um harsha's
still working on getting the
existing work the whole punching um
coordination work merged
um so that's that's some progress there
and then at the same time
working on um getting some some scripts
implementations together so that we can
do some um
live testing on the network with just
the group it appeals
home routers so we can play around with
that um
but yeah that is where that is
sweet uh unix fsv 1.5 and co ipfs
i don't know will ever be done
no update uh kypfs gc
improvement all right so uh taking a new
approach to the gc improvement which
does actually involve doing reference
counting for blocks and that's sort of a
big change from what the previous
prototype design was for so working
working through that that was sort of on
hold last week for the
hackathon week but picking that up and
continuing to work through
implementation which keeps block
reference counts
so that's that is the the current latest
uh thought on what would be the best
approach to this and so just
um and trying to get this prototyped out
so we can
uh other proof of concept
uh mfs improvements
mffs improvements that was actually what
i worked on for the most part of the
hack week and had some interesting
progress there
um it made that for the most part be
able to recognize uh
sorry current commands can recognize mfs
namespace
not necessarily any impressive for demo
but one of the things that was
uh did get implemented was the ability
to
import files directly into mfs
um again it's not terribly impressive
because it allows you to ipf has add and
add files directly but the nice thing is
that you don't see is that it's all
gc safe so instead of doing an ipfs add
an ipf has files cp you can just do an
ipfs add and then
add it directly to an mfs namespace and
in
a gc safe manner it transfers all the
files directly into it and it's so the
api is a lot nicer that like yeah the
user experience is a lot nicer because
instead having to go through two
commands you go through one simple more
intuitive just
add all these files now to mfs namespace
and
it does it within the gc lock so there's
no garbage collector that's going to
interfere with that
that process of getting an mfs so that's
only implemented for
one of the commands there's a few more
to go the document is there it describes
what the work is
three main remain points are the name
spacing stability and modification of
commands
but i'm not going to go but i would like
to get some feedback on that if you want
to if
if people want me to finish that effort
or um go ahead and just get back to the
gc work so
so call on prioritization leave that too
um
leave that uh for for later um if we
need to
but that's where but that's the the
motivation that and we can
the the stability changes are again it's
change it's a minor changes than how uh
locking and um and uh
and channels are used for signaling
within the mfs
so again nothing extraordinarily
outwardly facing but it's all
sort of internal
that's it for that
uh great do you want to roll straight
onto the go ffs migrations river
oh yeah i'd love to um well actually i
don't want much to report
from last week it's done there's four
pr's out there
um i it's there's probably going to be a
little bit of you know there might be
some discussion or some changes within
uh within the context of a review but
until those reviews
happen um i would uh
welcome anybody to look at it and see
how that stuff works try it out if you
want
it's it's a complete overhaul of the
migration system
so how about it
awesome uh uh so next is the ipfs pub
sub api revamp
um yeah so it's still working progress
i have a readable stream across node and
browsers now
i have a working progression that builds
on top
but i still need to finish it up and do
the tests
before i can submit the pull request i
guess i could submit it but before i
consider it ready
yeah it'd be nice to see what's going on
yeah i was holding off because uh that
readable stream sync
i was kind of published as a separate
library so it's not
part of the whole gsi psync because it
doesn't necessarily has to be
but i wanted to finish it up to make
sure that it actually does everything
that we
wanted to do but anyway i'll i'll put it
into pull request sooner
so that was intended awesome super
exciting
uh memory leak and js ipfs says no
update and we denying it it exists
it's convenient no i just paused
until i heard back from them uh i maybe
pick it up when i finish the other stuff
just to make sure we don't miss anything
yeah
fair enough uh
jess let p2p testing set up
yeah no no play this week i think we can
probably
take all these uh together with the dht
work
as the dhtv is one of the affected
ripples by that
and we can decide what to do for pub so
another hippos from there
excellent this brings us to the end of
the other initiatives
uh now we move on to all the
any other business kind of stuff so
design review proposals
does anybody have anything to propose
for a design review
well i haven't posted it officially but
if anybody wants to look over
the mfs what i propose for mfs and see
if that makes sense
i can the link is there to the html
version but i can also
put the hack md uh link somewhere
people can comment on it or whatever but
just get some
some feedback it should be a really
light read it's not like it's not really
designed it's more of a feature proposal
mfs ii wow sounds dramatic yes it's so
tragic
i would like to take a look actually
there is a document
yes there's uh oh i can uh put the hack
md on the
on slack uh if you want to make comments
direct panned out otherwise the html
dock is linked there with the ipfs link
that's cool i just put it in the uh just
copy paste the hackmd link into the
markdown into this
uh the meeting that's marked on file
away
um yeah whatever permissions you you
need to but that way anyone else who
is watching this call can also take a
look all right i will do that right now
if there are no further designery
proposals
we can move on to blockers and asks
a general general ask as we are looking
at
uh reorg stuff coming new teams coming
this meeting will likely get dismantled
in the future in favor
of other forums um and so
as an ask like we'll evaluate this as we
get closer
because we want to make sure that we
have appropriate roll off time um
should count on starting to wrap up the
work that we have in progress over the
next few weeks and not taking on
new work as we look to transition into
those groups
so keep that in mind as you're doing
stuff don't pick up stuff
start wrapping up work we should stop a
few weeks to be able to roll off
um so this doesn't need to be abrupt but
there's something to keep in mind as a
colleague i used to work with
enjoyed saying why isn't it done yet why
isn't it done yet why isn't it done yet
next is questions
i have a question um so
during the hack week i was trying to do
something that i was surprised didn't
work
and i'm wondering if i was doing it
wrong so idea was that
i would get a dog node out of for my
cid and then gonna
clone it and replace some links and
write it into back to ipfs
to get a new updated version of a tree
but that seems to create a broken
dog i think or at least then you are not
able to fetch it anymore
or navigate it uh is that
supposed to work is that a bug is that a
feature
good thing voc is it
and was it through the block api or
through the dag
api yeah i know so i i get a through the
deck api i get a
dog pb node so i then call remove link
things
and then i call add link things to
replace those and then i
say doug put and that you know
that seems to i didn't have time to
like dig into what was not working but
it was not working and then i end up
encoding the dag node as a block and
saving it as a block which worked
but yes so i think the short version is
the the
ip dag api can well be broken like this
hasn't been touched in years
so okay i mean we do have testosterone
so the recommendation for everyone
watching this is to use the blog api
instead and do the
encoding and coding on your client side
and then use the block api would be my
recommendation currently
this is for js
i want to see more details please
because this sounds like it should work
yes so yeah we should i'll create a test
case for sure
just to make sure that it's either
broken or is it
but i just want to make sure that it was
expected behavior to work
no see me after class this this is
supposed to work
okay and the other related question was
which was kind of
based on this it seems to me that it
would make a lot of sense to be able to
create a mfs out of cid and then kind of
do the
all your file system using insert and
try to do the block
tag back and forth is there a reason why
there should be one mfs
oh and why you shouldn't be able to
control what it's mapped to
in terms of cid we should be able to do
something like
you know take an ipfs path like make a
directory and get a new cid back for the
rear of that part
like
like the unification of the files api
live the dream like it will happen one
day
maybe it should be part of the mfs2 api
yeah you know feel free to propose
features or even just say discuss them
as something that might be related you
know it's not directly part of it
absolutely
if we're if we're going to do a bunch of
work on it now is the time to figure out
what what we want to do
or at least what what we should do
at some point there should be no mfs it
should just be like
here is a cid i happen to have like
persisted the root of it
and i have that as you know there's a
convenient way that i can reference that
in the future
um but it should just be like let me let
me change my dags in a way that i am
familiar with like a cli you know i know
how to use
the like bash to make a directory like
why can't i do that with
everything anyway um
got conscious of time but
uh i have a brief question
which is is there a good play like
do we have a place already to
put up like pointers tips things you've
run into
when trying to use like
you know the js ipfs http client with
electron
or i don't know almost anything with
electron because electron is special
um right like these are things that like
people who whether it was in the hack
week or just otherwise have like run
into and like they know the answers to
but now maybe want to to tell other
people about the answers they don't have
to discover them on their own
and the docs directory in the js ipfs
repo
um like consider good place for like
electron.md like here are the here are
the gotchas
that kind of thing cool
thanks
also a link from uh loyal in the chat
uh any any other questions
yes this is more of uh and and ask
uh or or something like that uh
it turns out that um after after some
poking around
uh snap has a bunch of quirks
and how it operates and scopes things
and what you're allowed to do that makes
deploying a strictly confined snap as a
cli tool
kind of annoying because you generally
expect your cli tool to just work on any
path you give it
but snap is like nope you don't exist
unless you're in one of
the places that i have been told in
advance i am allowed to access
um right now we're probably just going
to put
some docs explaining how this all works
on the website until you figure out
exactly how you want to do this
but if you have opinions uh
or you know experience with working with
with things that live in snap and how
you expect them to work
then uh your feedback would be
appreciated
you want to direct this feedback
somewhere yeah
i have a i have opinions which which
my opinion is whenever i have any cli
tool i make sure i don't install it as a
snap
so if we had maybe maybe we would use
another we have make ipfs available via
another package manager that might
might be something worthwhile
yeah uh yeah we'll have to
open up a open or reopen a github issue
on this to discuss um
i'll post the link to the one about
documentation
um
in in the notes though i mean uh
generally having some design plan is
useful because we'll also end up with
this happening on
for instance the mac uh sandboxing and
ios sandboxing and stuff right like
you're you're going to see likely more
and more cases where you run up against
running in an environment where you're
by defaulting an isolated thing so
having the
what is the plan for how these things
work when they find themselves in that
environment
um both like it's probably a similar set
of communication to users
in all of those cases of hey you're
running into sandbox you're gonna need
to do this as a way to access stuff on
the rest of your file system
yeah i guess i guess there's some
there's some like user diagnostic things
there which you know
come in various forms whether it's hey
i'm my note is behind a notch
or you know hey i can't access any of
the files because
uh my thing is only my my thing is
restricted to only use you know
the home directory or the home mounted
media directories or whatever
cool let's wrap this up 10 minutes over
yeah
parking lot no more questions only
answers
parking lot
okay we're done amazing wrapped up uh
thanks for coming everyone don't forget
to fill in your async updates
i know it says people are very naughty
and they don't do it you should do it
i'm naughty i don't
i'm gonna do about alex uh everyone
should do it okay cool
thank you for coming everyone uh we'll
see you next week or maybe we won't
bye